---
title: "Dividable Configuration Performance Learning"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-10-19-DaL-ext
date: 2024-10-19
venue: 'TSE'
---
In this paper, we propose a model-agnostic
and sparsity-robust framework for predicting configuration performance, dubbed DaL, based on the new paradigm of dividable learning
that builds a model via “divide-and-learn”. To handle sample sparsity, the samples from the configuration landscape are divided into
distant divisions, for each of which we build a sparse local model, e.g., regularized Hierarchical Interaction Neural Network, to deal with
the feature sparsity. A newly given configuration would then be assigned to the right model of division for the final prediction. Further,
DaL adaptively determines the optimal number of divisions required for a system and sample size without any extra training or profiling.
Experiment results from 12 real-world systems and five sets of training data reveal that, compared with the state-of-the-art approaches,
DaL performs no worse than the best counterpart on 44 out of 60 cases (within which 31 cases are significantly better) with up to
1.61× improvement on accuracy; requires fewer samples to reach the same/better accuracy; and producing acceptable training
overhead. In particular, the mechanism that adapted the parameter d can reach the optimal value for 76.43% of the individual runs. The
result also confirms that the paradigm of dividable learning is more suitable than other similar paradigms such as ensemble learning for
predicting configuration performance. Practically, DaL considerably improves different global models when using them as the
underlying local models, which further strengthens its flexibility. 

To promote open science, all the data, code, and supplementary materials of this work can be accessed at our [github repository](https://github.com/ideas-labo/DaL-ext).

The full paper can be downloaded [here](https://gjz78910.github.io/files/DaL-ext.pdf).

<embed src="https://gjz78910.github.io/files/DaL-ext.pdf" type="application/pdf" width="100%" />
